# Critical Mass Internship Application
Hello! Thank you so much for this opportunity. Below is my completed application for the developer internship position. Hope you enjoy!

# Work / Project Examples


## Movie Knight
[Movie Knight](https://github.com/dahiryusuf/Movie_Knight) is the largest and most robust app I have created to date; it uses an Express and Postgres backend with a React.JS frontend. Movie Knight is a  website that has all of the latest movies in every genre available for users to view and add to their own personal watchlist. From this watchlist, users can create a watch party - with a minimum of 5 movies – and send them to their group of friends to pick through. Each person gets to swipe left (no) or right (yes) on each movie, then the algorithm we created selects the top-chosen movie and presents it to the host. I created the app with one other person, and my main responsibilities were to create a backend REST API for the database, and some of the frontend components. Creating the app was a huge learning experience for me, as I figured out how to create an API in order to access all the info stored by each user and how to make a proper Postgres database. I did face some challenges throughout the project, such as formatting issues with the data when being accessed from the frontend which I was able to fix by formatting it into JSON and putting it into proper objects. I have really fond memories of creating this app because it allowed me to build my backend skills, finish with an end-product I was really proud of and overall, become a more confident developer. 

## Dordle
[Dordle](dahiryusuf.ca) is a Wordle clone I made to put on my personal website, while I worked on my portfolio website and works just like regular Wordle, except the answer is my name. I built the app using React.JS and it was one of my favorite apps to make because it allowed me to put my own personal twist on my favorite game. The most challenging thing about making Dordle was the styling because I wanted it to look as close to the actual Wordle as possible and required me to code in CSS extensively. Through this project I was able to get really good at positioning and styling items which really helped strengthen my CSS skills.

## Xenon
[Xenon](https://xenon-landing-page.herokuapp.com/) was a project I created alongside a team, as part of the Prepr program – which teaches necessary business and team-building skills, and simulates a real world work environment through its final project. Each team, consisting of 2 UX designers, 1 graphic designer, 1 marketer and 2 web developers, had to think of an idea and bring it to the market with an MVP and marketing plan. My role as web developer, alongside my peer, were tasked with building out the website for our product by creating a landing page. I was responsible for the top hero portion of the website and making the website mobile responsive. This project was the first time I built a website in collaboration with a full team, so  having the input of UX and graphic designers made it one of the nicest websites I have ever created. I ran into a few problems adding in elements from the graphic designers because I hadn’t worked much with graphics before, but it turned into a productive learning moment and we were able to successfully create a well-done end-product. 

# Inspiration


### Three.js
[Three.js](https://threejs.org/examples/#webgl_animation_keyframes) is a JavaScript library that allows you to use and render 3D graphics in the browser without needing to use any outside programs. The entire source code is hosted on Github and it is very well documented, which is great for anyone trying to learn how to use the library. I am constantly finding new ways to use the language and I am constantly amazed by what you can do with JavaScript. They have some examples on their website that are really amazing and I hope one day I find a way to incorporate it into one of my projects.

### Dribbble
[Dribbble](https://dribbble.com/)  is a platform that lets graphic designers and web developers show off their work to show people their innovative, or clever designs. Whenever I am starting a project and need some inspiration for a design, I scroll through the different images to find something that sparks my imagination. I recently was inspired by a Login and Sign Up page that someone had created by flipping it like a coin when choosing between the two forms and I used a similar design in my app recently. The website is full of some of the best designs I have ever seen, and the way people figure out solutions to their programs always amazes me!

### OpenAi DALL-E 2
[DALL-E 2](https://www.engadget.com/open-a-is-dall-e-2-produces-fantastical-images-of-most-anything-you-can-imagine-170056814.html) is the latest innovation from OpenAI, an artificial intelligence research laboratory founded by tech giants who aim to use AI to better the lives of humans everywhere. DALL-E 2 works by providing an AI with a prompt like “Mouse with a hat made of cheese”’; the AI then draws a representation of the prompt it was given. DALL-E 2 is different from the first iteration as it allows you to upload one of your own pictures and this new software will make additions and modifications to the original uploaded images as if it were a part of the original.  I am always fascinated by how fast AI is progressing and how it is constantly pushing the envelope. As a developer I love hearing about the latest innovations as I like to use it as fuel to motivate myself, and I hope to one day be amongst the developers truly making a difference in the world. 

# Focus

In the first six months, I would love to learn the fundamentals of UX design. I have recently been doing a lot of frontend work and have noticed that although I had the coding capabilities, I lacked an understanding about how to optimize the experience of the users. I believe that working alongside and collaborating with UX designers will give me the knowledge I need to take my projects to the next level. In those six months, I would try to learn about different prototyping and wireframing tools to better map out and plan my projects. I would also hope to get a deeper understanding of how to assess users' needs and behaviors.  With these skills, I believe I would be a more well rounded developer and view my projects in a more holistic manner. 
## Code Challenge
https://codesandbox.io/s/2022-internship-exercise-menu-forked-fpzz7p?file=/src/styles.css